(claps)
- Everyone out there, welcome to the live stream.
Michael, great to be chatting with you here.
- Likewise, thanks for having me.
- Yeah, you bet.
Now, before we actually get to the podcast part,
if you have comments for us during the show,
please put them into the live comments on YouTube
and we'll try to make them part of our conversation here.
And so, yeah, with that out of the way,
let's go and get started.
- Michael, welcome back to Talk Python to Me.
- Thank you.
- Yeah, it's really great to have you back.
You've been on before, and there's a bunch of stuff
that we're gonna talk about that you've been up to
and we've done.
So you were back on episode 206
when you talked about running Django in production.
And you've had a couple of large sites
that you've been running, and most recent one
is probably testdriven.io where you do some articles,
some tutorials and some courses, right?
Yeah, so life was obviously much different back in when I was on the podcast back in, what was that, February of 2019.
But yeah, I mean, so now I'm still working on testdriven.io.
So that's a, you know, I do training courses for
mid to senior level developers that are looking to
get, learn test-driven development, microservices,
and AWS infrastructure and whatnot.
- Nice, it's mostly Python and JavaScript stuff,
is that right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, cool.
Maybe some of the same time?
- Yeah, a bit.
Yeah, I mean, it's, we also,
I also get a lot into like container orchestration
and whatnot, a little bit of Kubernetes,
a little bit of AWS ECS as well.
- Awesome.
And so what do you have to do now?
So yeah, I am running testdriven.io on the side,
but my full-time main gig is for Monitor.
And we, as the banner there says,
we're doing machine learning assurance.
We're really doing probably machine learning governance
is probably more like what,
if we had to redo the website,
that's probably what we would establish
machine learning governance would be there
rather than assurance.
But basically we're helping to ensure
that your AI is doing what it should be doing in production.
So that your models are basically inferences or predictions
that your models are serving up are like within a certain bounds, essentially.
Right. Like if the input data changes and you don't change your models,
maybe they're not meant to understand that type of data.
And there's just, you know, the thing is, you're always going to get an answer, right?
Yeah.
So yeah, I mean wrong or invalid data like but it looks like a valid answer. Like how do you know?
Right, it's kind of like yeah in excel like when you whenever you get you know, whatever it is besides an na or whatever
You know, it's you know, you don't know, you know if that's like good or bad or not
And so yeah, we're looking for like feature drift. we're looking for model drift. We're looking for bias, you know that sort of things
um, we're also we take all inferences, that go through a model we're logging and then we're also
versioning the model as well. So you can recreate the model run counterfactual type tests and whatnot.
Interesting. Okay. Is that mostly Python stuff over there?
Yeah, so it's a Django model. If that's like the the back end API, using flask is sort of a middle
layer to transform data between the API and the front end, the front end is in view. And it's
It's primarily AWS and so I'm using Terraform as infrastructure as code to simplify the
maintaining of the infrastructure.
That's cool.
I feel like Terraform has definitely taken off.
I hear a lot of people saying that they're using it these days.
Yeah, I've really...
Is that like Ansible or Chef or it's like a competitor to that, right?
Yeah, I think those are a little bit different.
I would say it's more of a competitor to like cloud formation templates.
And cloud for I think there's a new sort of infrastructure as code from AWS called CDK.
That's a little bit more declarative, sort of how Terraform is.
And I haven't had a chance to look at that.
But I think that's sort of like the new hotness these days.
And then there's one more called like Pulumi, I believe is the name.
But I haven't used that one.
Yeah, cool. People want to learn more about what's going on with Monitar. They can check out
They can check out episode 261, which is a little newer
April 2020 with one of your co-founders Andrew Clark. Is he still working with you?
Yeah, definitely
Yeah, cool. So we dive into all that sort of stuff over there, which is cool
So really the the main thing that we're going to talk about is fast api, right?
Like that's what we're both here.
We're both fans of FastAPI on multiple levels.
And yeah, so we're gonna talk about the,
basically all the extensions in the ecosystem
around FastAPI, but make the case for us
for FastAPI itself.
Like I feel like there was a quite a thousand flowers
blooming type of thing going on once async and await
came out in Python, right?
we had the Django, the Flask, old standbys.
And then when things switched with type annotations
and with async and await,
those frameworks couldn't move super quick to adapt to those.
So things like FastAPI and Sanic and Jupyter,
and Starlette and API star,
all these things just sort of came into existence.
And FastAPI is certainly among that crowd, right?
- Yeah, FastAPI definitely leverages Starlet.
And so, yeah, you get the whole async syntax,
async and await syntax. I would say that I like FastAPI for other things. I don't really
take advantage of async and await. I have one production app that's running in FastAPI.
I honestly care less about async and await. But it's more about the developer experience
that I get. And also, I really like Pydantic. I would say that, yeah, if you're really into
the Pydantic and that's like what you use
for serialization, deserialization, whatnot,
then I would definitely check out FastAPI.
- Absolutely.
Just you probably don't realize it
'cause it's not very obvious.
There's like, if you scoured the website,
you might learn this.
I just interviewed Samuel Colvin,
who the creator and maintainer of Pydantic
about Pydantic and all the cool stuff it does.
So people who are listening to this
probably may have just listened to that episode
And FastAPI is a framework that absolutely takes Pydantic
and puts it on the boundary, right?
Like it's when data is exchanged with FastAPI,
the most default way to do that
is to somehow involve Pydantic models, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
And I mean, like, if you could think back to like Flask,
Flask is like just a wrapper on top of, you know,
WordSwig and not pronouncing that right,
but WordSwig, Click and a couple others
that are escaping me right now.
but FastAPI is really just a wrapper.
- It's dangerous and like a couple of them, yeah.
- It's just a wrapper on top of, you know,
Pydantic, OpenAPI, JSON, JSON Schema,
you know, that sort of things.
A few more like sort of modern tools like that.
And so what makes FastAPI cool is that you can,
it makes it easy to like hook into those two.
So you can like leverage that
and build plugins and whatnot.
- Yeah.
So you can say things like,
here's my API endpoint that I expect somebody
to send a JSON document to.
Oh, and the argument to the document
is just a Pydantic model, right?
And then FastAPI will either successfully convert
that model over or send something like a 400 or 422 back
to say bad data, we can't convert it to what we're expecting.
And on top of that,
FastAPI then automatically generates the OpenAPI stuff,
which you hinted at based on those models, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, so you could throw that runtime,
type checking that you were talking about.
And so you're really abstracting that out all to Pydantic.
And so you don't have to maintain a test suite
around that either.
And so it handles all of the error handling around that.
It sends back a nice human and computer readable response.
- Yeah, one of the things I like is if,
so you've got a nested object,
maybe I've got a Pydantic model
and has a list of little baby Pydantic models.
And then there's an error.
The error would say the third thing in the list
is where the problem is, not just there's some invalid data,
but on this field, you've got a list,
you've sent me a list of things, the third one,
that's where that type conversion error is.
It's really good about allowing you to drill out
-of where the data is wrong. -Yeah.
Okay, cool. So we've got the async and await stuff,
which you said you don't use a lot, but if you need it,
it's nice to have it, right? It's really there.
We're going to talk about some of the places that plug into that in a moment.
PyDandic, I think, is a big one.
The OpenAPI stuff is a big one.
And to me, also, deployment is just simple.
As long as you've got uvicorn or gunicorn plus uvicorn,
you're good to go.
There's not a lot of other stuff you got to do on the server.
Just gunicorn, fire this thing up,
and maybe point Nginx, put Nginx in front of it.
Yeah, definitely.
I like how it doesn't have a development server.
either. So you have to use UVI Corn in development. And I think that helps beginners that are
new to web development conceptually understand that, hey, this development server is -- there's
a difference here between this development server and this production server. Whereas
like with Flask and with Django, where they give you a development WSGI server right out of the
box, I think it's confusing. Because a lot of people are like, well, why do I need that? Why
Why can't I use this instead of g-unicorn?
- Exactly, and they always come with this warning.
This is not a production server, please don't use this.
And you're like, okay, well,
what if I wanna test it for performance?
Is it kinda like what I would expect?
Is it really different?
There's all these things, just make it run
what you're gonna run in production anyway, right?
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
- Pretty cool, okay, well, I think that's a pretty solid
case for FastAPI.
I do think it's probably its biggest parallel competitor type thing is probably Flask.
You know, a lot of times people are using Django. They're trying to do a little bit more
than maybe what they're doing with Flask.
Flask has many, many plugins as well. So I don't know. What do you think about this?
Do you see these working together? Would you use one instead of the other?
It's interesting because I think last week, you know, Flask announced their 2.0.
another 2.0 is going to have some async and await support.
And that'll be interesting because the entire Flask,
part of the power behind Flask is the ecosystem.
Like you have just thousands of plugins.
Some might argue that's like there's too many plugins,
but regardless, there's a lot of different plugins there.
And so are they all going to start migrating over
and supporting async and await?
What are they going to do?
So I think that'll be interesting.
But yeah, I would say there's obviously
a lot of comparison type articles between Flask and FastAPI.
I don't know. I try not to get into the either or
type thinking and try and think of, you know, and in both, like they're both
tools. I use all three. I like
FastAPI for certain things. I use Django for other things and I use Flask
for other things. And so, you know, it's just all about
like the tool, you know, having the right tool for the
job. Yeah, I would say that FastAPI is more, you know, similar to
Flask then, you know, obviously is Django. And so it's probably going to be compared more
to Flask. But I still think that there's like certain reasons that I would probably use Flask
over FastAPI. Sure. That may well be because one of the plugins that you're talking about
exactly nails the use case. Yeah. And I'm also going to have David and Phil on to talk about the
Flask 2.0 release pretty soon. So that's, I think, you know, there's been this sort of like
leapfrog thing is probably going to put Flask back.
If not ahead of FastAPI and some of the cool features,
it'll bring a lot of those features over, I would expect.
It's also worth pointing out that like in Flask,
you can still do cool stuff with say, Pydantic.
You just need one extra line of code.
The very first line of your API method could just be,
model equals Pydantic thing star star request dot,
get form or whatever the call is to get the form data
that's been posted over or get the JSON data that's been posted over.
And then run with it the same.
Yeah, there's a nice Flask Pydantic plugin as well.
So yeah, you can definitely use Pydantic inside of Flask.
And then there's also like Flask REST X,
which will give you nice open API slash Swagger type support as well.
So if you want that out of the box.
Interesting. Okay.
Yeah, and a lot of this is awareness, right?
Like knowing, oh, there's this thing that I can go get, right?
knowing that I could get Flask, Pydantic, or the open API, so on.
And that brings us to our main topic here.
How do you discover these things and know that they're out there, right?
It turns out there's actually a bunch of extension type libraries for FastAPI.
I don't know there's an official plugin model for FastAPI,
but certainly things built to make FastAPI better and add functionality to it, right?
And so I learned about a lot of them from your awesome FastAPI list,
but maybe just for a minute for people who are not aware of this whole trend of awesome lists,
maybe just talk about awesome lists for us a little bit.
Like what's the story? Where do these things come from?
Yeah, I can't remember exactly when they started popping up.
I feel like maybe like five years ago, something like that.
But I mean, awesome lists is, I guess, just literally just a list of awesome things.
In theory, it's contributed and maintained by the community.
I mean, oftentimes what really happens is the main author becomes a dictator around that,
which I think is totally fine. But yeah, I think there's thousands of different
awesome lists out there. And so it's just... And you're at an awesome list. You're at a
a meta awesome list of awesome lists type thing there.
So it gets a little crazy.
- It does get super, super meta.
And it gets very specific as well.
The one that probably people know best in the Python space
is awesome-python.com, which is really general, right?
I mean, there's Flask stuff and FastAPI stuff.
There's zillions of other areas.
And then there's all these offshoots like yours
around FastAPI and Stumper Flask and so on.
So when did you create your awesome FastAPI?
It can't be more than two years ago, right?
'Cause that's how long.
- Yeah, I would say it must be like a year old,
I would say.
I can't remember when we launched the FastAPI course
on test-driven, but it was like right around the same time.
I think the list probably actually came out before that.
'Cause the first blog posts on FastAPI came out
in January of 2020.
So it was definitely after that.
- Yeah, really cool.
Well, and I think, you know,
it's FastAPI being around two years old,
it takes a little while for these extra libraries
to build up around it, right?
And I definitely think it's gaining momentum.
It was for the first time it showed up on,
I think it was the PSF JetBrains survey for 2020.
And it went straight to number three
as the most popular web framework.
It was really quite interesting how popular it,
how quickly it became popular.
To me, it's because it brings together these little pieces,
each one that is kind of a neat, new, modern Python idea,
like type hints, like Pydantic, like async and await,
all those things, and you just bring it all together
in one, and you're like, oh yeah,
this has all the things that I care about, this is cool.
All right, so your awesome list is broken down
into a bunch of different categories,
like third-party extensions, and then resources,
including, say, a podcast episode like this one,
and so on, and so on.
So what I thought it'd be fun to do
is let's just maybe go through some of those sections
and highlight a couple of the tools or extensions
or whatever that are really neat.
- Yeah, that sounds great.
- How about the FastAPI admin for the first one?
(laughing)
Sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off there, go ahead.
- I was gonna say one of the reasons why I did create this
is mainly for these third-party extensions
for like listing these.
So I think, you know, it's kind of Django packages at org
really aggregates them really well for, you know,
obviously for Django.
I don't think there is one anymore for Flask.
The main Flask docs used to have a list,
but it just got out of control.
But yeah, I think, you know, one of the powerful things
is definitely the ecosystem and like these extensions.
So I thought like, someone's got to like start this.
So I took the helm.
- Fantastic.
All right, so the first one I think is pretty interesting
is this FastAPI admin.
Tell us about this.
- Yeah, so if you're familiar with Django,
like one of the powerful things that you get from Django
right out of the box is a nice CRUD admin
where you can interact with your models,
your database models in sort of like a CRUD,
GUI like fashion.
And so you can add data,
all of sort of the CRUD functionality right out of the box.
so you don't have to jump into SQL.
So yeah, this just mimics that same sort of behavior.
- Very cool, very cool.
Yeah, that's one of the main features of Django
that I would see people using it for.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So yeah, so the idea is basically
if I want to create users or mess with other tables,
like here they have products and categories,
and it's just like a grid type thing
to add new ones, edit existing ones, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, it's very straightforward, but yeah,
it's not like, there's not really too much to say about it.
It's not, you know, some super sexy interface
or anything like that, but it is like,
it just saves a lot of time.
- Yeah, like one of the main features
of the newer Django 3.2 maybe,
was that there's now templating for its admin stuff
to make it look all super cool.
- Yeah.
- But to be honest, I think one of the really important
things is to make it easy for people to get started.
- Yeah.
- And you know, for me,
if I had to build a little admin back end thing like this,
like, all right, well, there's half a day,
gotta do that to add in.
But if you're starting new and you're like,
okay, I got this page showing, but now I need to edit them.
Oh no, like, this is gonna be such a pain, right?
Having something like this, so you can just plug in
would be, it'd be really helpful to say,
oh, actually maybe I will choose FastAPI over,
you know, Django rest framework, for example,
potentially because it might have an admin, right?
- Yeah, I think one of the negatives about this,
and this is one of the negatives with Django,
is a lot of people use it for stuff
that is not intended to be used for.
Like they try and create,
make a consumer facing version of it.
I think that's partly the impetus for the templates
is to be able to do more stuff like that,
which I think that is not,
then you have to make everyone sort of an admin.
I think that's a bad practice.
- Yeah, it might lead to some problems.
- Yeah, yeah.
(laughing)
- Yeah, Joe out there on the live stream says,
does this include identity?
Like, can I get a, I'm guessing,
a restricted admin backend?
- Yeah, I'm not sure.
- We are gonna talk about other things
that do include identity, and I suspect,
I know I haven't plugged in,
but there's probably some point where you write some bit
of API endpoint maybe.
I know there's got to be a way where you restrict access to it.
Yeah.
I mean, if it works, I haven't here, maybe that's it.
I haven't used this particular one.
I don't use tortoise and production.
I last I looked at this, it didn't work with any other or Ms besides tortoise.
But I know like the, if it's built similar to the, or designed like the
Django or I'm the Django or, you know, it doesn't have like a concept of permissions.
So it's just, it has like a super user.
And so if you're super user access, you get access to it.
So there's not really any, I think there's probably maybe some extensions you can use
to like limit access, but yeah, it looks like permission true.
You know, maybe there's like a concept of permissions here.
- I'm thinking there's two places where you can put a little bit of protection here.
One is this, where you say the URL is /admin.
The URL could be /uuid out of some insane length, right?
So it's not very guessable.
And then this app secret, I suspect, is like,
what is the secret?
You know, knock, knock, what's the magic word sort of thing.
And there's just one login for it.
But you know, for the right type of app,
that's probably good enough.
- Yeah, you would definitely want to change
that URL in production.
You don't want a forward slash admin.
People are just helping you with stuff like that.
- Yeah, and I don't know if people out there
in the audience have ever done this,
but if you haven't, it's shocking.
If you go and you just tail the log of your site,
like the main request log,
you'll just see like requests for all sorts of like weird,
unrelated stuff.
People just trying to guess to see if it exists.
Like there's all sorts of requests for like wpadmin.php
on my site and in Python,
it has no admin thing like that whatsoever,
but people are just going, is there this type of,
is there, can I get and try a default password
against a PHP admin backend,
or try that for a Joomla backend
and just start jamming on those things, right?
And so having that URL, something that's just not default,
while it's not a big piece of security,
it dissuades the bots, I think.
- Yeah, yeah, keeps the honest people honest.
- Exactly, you wanna hack, you gotta do it for real.
Okay, let's talk about authentication.
There's a whole section on different types of things
here, right?
- Yeah, so the one that I like the best
or the one that I've used the most,
I guess I'd say is FastAPI users.
And I think that's the most popular one.
Yeah, yeah, this is it.
So it uses all, like it uses JWT based auth,
but you can also, instead of like, you know,
like you can store your JWT wherever you want,
but this also has like a session, you know,
capability built into it where you can store the JWT
in a cookie.
a lot of times, you know, people are storing JOTS and local storage, which could lead to
XSS type attacks or like open you up to like some, is it XSS or cross-site scripting? Or
yeah, I always get those mixed up. But yeah, I thought that was cool. You don't see that a lot
in like sort of like libraries that are like JOT based. Yeah, that's cool. Yeah, it has either a
a cookie auth or a job auth backend, which is cool.
And it also supports different ORMs.
So if you'd like SQLAlchemy, you can do that.
If you'd like MongoDB, you can do that.
Tortoise or ORMR, which I haven't actually heard of before,
but we'll probably talk about it in a minute anyway.
But yeah, quite neat.
And also OAuth2.
- Yeah.
So this is quite neat if you want to plug it in.
It looks like a bunch of people have contributed to it.
So it looks pretty lively.
- Yeah, it's very popular.
- Yeah, I mean, one thing people might wanna check out
is the sneak package advisor.
Have you seen this?
Here.
And you can put all sorts of different packages in here.
So if you're like, this one or that one,
and you could actually pull it up and have it tell you,
maybe not always that quickly,
the health of the, like, how popular is it?
How healthy is its maintenance and its security
and its sustainability and so on.
So if you're like, oh, I got these two or three extensions
that might be doing the same thing,
it might be worth throwing into this sneak package advisor
and get a sense for like, ah,
this one seems a little stronger in terms of liveliness.
- Is the popularity score, is it based on similar packages
or just like kind of global?
- Yeah, that's a good question.
- 'Cause I can't imagine that there'd be a more popular
- I think it's global.
I'm pretty sure it's like a logarithmic global type thing
because yeah, right.
This is probably the most popular one.
So what is it kind of, what's gonna beat it, right?
But it's only 798 stars relative to like Flask users
or something like that, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'd have to look and actually see.
It does like show you similar packages.
If you can find, sometimes it'll say,
here's some other stuff that's like it, but anyway,
I think that might be a good thing.
Anyway, I think that might be something to like bring together with just awesome lists in general, right?
Let's give me a chance to check these out and see how they're doing
You've also got a flask enough FastAPI login based on the flask login
They're both too similar and both words in the same place. Yeah
Out off which is kind of cool. So like using off zero or
AWS cognito or things like that if you're doing that anyway, that might be nice
- Yeah, Office0, they just got bought by somebody,
I feel like, Google or something like that, Facebook, yeah.
- Yeah, I feel like they bought something else
and then, you know, little fish, big fish, well.
- Okta, I think Okta just bought them.
- Yes, that's right, it was Okta, that's right.
Another one I wanted to throw out there
while we're in this section that I don't see here
and I don't see anything that does this.
Possibly, let's look at FastAPI security.
Maybe this one does.
It's not super documented over there.
I feel like this throws some of the permissions in there
that you would really want, but a place called.
- Like open API type stuff.
- More like the general OWASP stuff.
If you check out secure, just how did they get this
as the modern PyPI package name,
just the word secure.
But this one, it doesn't say that it plugs in with FastAPI,
but it plugs in with Flask and Django and Pyramid
and Court and Responder and Starlet.
And Starlette is the foundation.
So I think that it would actually.
And what it does is it does things like
it sets all the default header behaviors,
like that the frame, you can't embed somebody else's,
your site into somebody else's site
and that cross-site scripting protection
is set in certain types of cache policies and whatnot.
And just by doing like one line of code
over on against it, one or two lines,
it'll automatically just like wrap every request
with one of those.
So that might also be interesting to think about
in this regard.
- Yeah, those headers can get confusing,
especially if you're using like a single page application
and you have to, if you're trying to use cookies
or some sort of like session based auth
or whatever at the same time,
like it can get pretty complex on those headers.
So yeah, that seems like a cool package.
- Yeah, and if something new comes out
that should be added that you don't pay attention to,
but you happen to upgrade your package,
maybe it'll bring like the new best practice along, right?
Okay, so that's authentication.
Databases, it's broken, you have it broken down into ORMs,
query builders ODMs, which is for document databases,
but it looks like a quick scan that document equal equal MongoDB for the moment.
Yeah.
And then there's other, which like JSON exchange and whatnot.
Let's talk, let's talk ORMs first.
Big, like you pointed out, big news for SQLAlchemy, right?
Yeah, SQLAlchemy 1.4 was either last week or the week before.
The change actually broke the FastAPI or actually broke the flask course,
Because it requires the database uri to have postgresql as the name rather than just postgres and so, you know that broke broke the course
So a little a little bit, you know, my courses too. It broke one of my fast agi courses because we were using async
Uh, we were using the new one the async one, but then they said well you're using a driver that doesn't support async
so we're going to throw an exception instead of
Just work more slowly and like yeah
Again, you had to put like a separate different driver in there and so on so
Yeah, so we find out sometimes the hard way about these releases, but
Yeah
Yeah, so what's the big deal sql alchemy and then we got the sql alchemy plug in here
Yeah, let's see. So I mean I haven't updated this like for specifically for like, anything new with sql alchemy
So yeah, there's that fast api sql alchemy
That'd be interesting to take a look at that one to see if like there's any has been any have there been any updates since?
sql alchemy the new one
- It looks like it hasn't been released.
- It looks like, no.
- Looks like it hasn't been touched yet.
- Yeah, so maybe if you're looking to contribute,
maybe there's something to be done here
because SQLAlchemy used to not support async.
The big thing with the SQLAlchemy 1.4,
there's stuff which changes in the API
to sort of move to something new.
But the big one that's probably relevant here
is SQLAlchemy now, as of 1.4, supports async and await.
Like async, await, execute this query type of thing
give me the objects back.
You might not care at all about that,
but if you're using async and await view or API endpoints
and vast API, but you want to use SQLAlchemy,
well, there goes your async, right?
It's gone.
'Cause one of the most important things
to await upon is the database.
And so now the new SQLAlchemy has that support.
And I'm guessing this one,
it probably doesn't support that, right?
'Cause it just, it didn't exist.
- Yeah. - But still, yeah.
- Yeah, I'm not exactly sure.
Like, let's see, Ed.
- I'm sure it won't work because the sample right here
is exactly the same code I had that broke.
So it's not gonna work, but you know,
it also is very possible to be quickly
and easily updatable, I don't know.
But people can check that out.
I guess another one you've mentioned earlier is Tortoise.
- Tortoise, yeah. - I haven't read anything
with Tortoise, that's a story.
Like database is supposed to be fast and here's a turtle.
What's going on?
(laughing)
- Yeah, I mean, you know, naming is tough, right?
(laughs)
I would say like Tortoise is probably like
the most popular one or like just the one that
I've like seen the most use out of in terms of like,
I've seen a lot of FastAPI projects.
And so, yeah, I think Tortoise is one
that's like leveraged a lot.
Honestly, people use SQLAlchemy
probably more than anything else.
And they just like don't deal with async, you know,
type stuff.
But if you want async, you know, in a way, then yeah,
I mean, Tortoise definitely has quite a bit of support there.
- Yeah, you've got Pony ORM, Tortoise ORM,
Peewee, I know Peewee has an async version.
I know the Django people are working on an async ORM story,
but it's not there yet.
SQLAlchemy just got it.
One of the things I like about this is they put just
what seems like a pretty fair graph
comparing all the different ORMs in terms of performance.
And Tortoise ORM comes up pretty nice on like single inserts
and whole updates, but there's also places
where it's slower than other stuff.
And they're just like, we're gonna put it all up there.
And if you find it useful, here's what you get.
- And Tortoise is similar to the Django ORM
in the sense that it uses an active record type approach,
more similar to PeeWee, whereas SQLAlchemy
uses the escape me data mapper approach, I believe.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So that's confusing for people
'cause you've got to create the session,
then you do all this stuff and then you call commit
and if you want to make changes
and it's not that hard to deal with,
but it is one of those things you're like,
why, where do I get ahold of the session
if I got ahold of objects and I want to update it?
Like I do find the active record stuff
for simple cases pretty handy, right?
And it comes from Django as well in that style.
- Yeah.
- So it'd be felt real familiar.
Yeah, very cool. Joe also out there says, "What's the most popular database to use with
FastAPI?" Postgres, ExpressJS, Mongo, maybe is like another example of a pairing.
Yeah, I would say Postgres.
Yeah. I think generally speaking, if you're talking Python, it's Postgres if you're relational,
And then you can also do a lot of things with MongoDB
if you're not, that seems to be like the story.
The important thing here is that you may care about async
in a way, so then that limits the way in which you can talk
to the things, but both Postgres and MongoDB
have really good async stories.
So I think that still holds for Flask API.
- Does SQLite have any sort,
like I don't know if you know this offhand,
if SQLite has any sort of async support?
the way you access it has important behaviors
that are any different,
but there's a new driver that allows it to integrate
with an async event loop, asyncio event loop.
So it won't block the loop,
but basically it just means there's another thread waiting
and you won't get like true scalability,
but at least like if you're waiting on a query here
and an external API there,
they can both happen at the same time.
But if you have a bunch of database calls,
I think it just queues ups.
- Yeah.
Cool.
All right.
So Tortoise ORM, useful because down here somewhere,
we probably have an await, I'm guessing.
Here's the, you asked about the SQLite.
Here's the SQLite library.
AIO SQLite is the one that Mike Bayer was recommending.
Yeah.
But down here you can do, you know, await, create object,
await, filter object dot first,
like exactly what you want for simple access to.
Yeah, I mean, if you're just doing like a quick select or delete or whatever it is,
you're probably not going to get any sort of performance boost.
But if you're doing a, for whatever reason, if you're doing a lot of different queries
in a route handler that are not dependent on each other, or if you're like, you're doing
more than one query that is very expensive, that's also not dependent on each other, then
you might get a performance boost like this.
Basically, the worse your database is, the better.
Yeah, there you go.
whatever benefit you're going to get,
because async await is all about scaling,
waiting and latency.
So the more latency your database has,
'cause you're doing slow queries
or it's like cloud and far away or whatever,
you're going to benefit from that.
But if it's a one millisecond response time, who knows?
All right.
You also mentioned Gino, G-I-N-O.
This is like literally the first time I'm seeing it.
What is this?
- Yeah, so Gino is from what I understand,
It's more of like a full ecosystem.
Yeah, so Gino is not ORM, it's like asynchronous ORM.
So, but yeah, I mean, it is an ORM,
but it also like, I believe there's a generator in here
where you can build your project,
you build like a scaffold out an entire like FastAPI app
sort of like based on your models.
- Yeah.
- So similar to how the Rails like skeleton command works.
I don't know if you're familiar with that at all,
you can like scaffold out like a quick CRUD app.
- Okay, cool.
And it's one of these recursive acronyms.
- Oh yeah, it is, yeah.
- So it talks about having an async API
on top of SQLAlchemy.
I wonder how much importance that will have these days.
But yeah, it sounds like it has other stuff
like you talked about the whole community and stuff.
So very cool.
All right, what else is in here that we should talk about?
There's a couple other ORMs.
people can look at query builders.
- I've used databases quite a bit.
One difficult thing about databases is Googling.
Is like, you try and Google any sort of like errors
around databases, it's, you know,
like who knows what's gonna come up, but yeah.
I mean, this is like, you know, one that's,
I think it's by this- - Was this originally done
by Kenneth Wrights and then handed off?
Or is this- - You know, I'm not sure.
I think it's by the same team that does Starlet.
Yeah, Tom Christie, that's escaped me there.
Yeah. - Okay.
- Yeah.
- Cool.
- Yeah, he does a lot of stuff.
- I've had him on the show before.
He's definitely a busy guy.
That's awesome.
Cool, so it's like a wrapper around SQLAlchemy Core
that then will give you back like proper queries
and stuff like that.
- Yeah.
- Nice, okay.
All right, very nice.
ODM's just, you know, really quick mentions
as I was recently talking about Beanie on Python Bytes.
Beanie's kind of cool.
It's an async way to talk to MongoDB.
It's an ODM object document mapper
because there's no relations, not really.
But what's interesting about that is,
is one, it has an async option,
and two, it's all about Pydantic.
So you're normally you'd have like Django models
or SQLAlchemy models, like,
like Django models or SQLAlchemy models,
like the models are Pydantic models
that go to and from the database,
which has an interesting possibility for integration
back into the like return types and stuff
that you would have say for a FastAPI.
So anyway, that's if you're into it,
that's potentially worth checking out.
It's based on motor,
which is the MongoDB official async driver for Python.
- Yeah, the PR for that one came out, I think last week.
And I heard about it maybe the week before.
I don't know if that's like a new library beanie, but yeah, it's quite new because I was talking to
Roman right I believe is the guy. Yeah, Roman, right?
If I just read
Roman, right is the guy who created this and when he did some stuff on it
I talked about how I thought it was really cool to be using pydandic models and types
But it needs indexes. And so he actually went and put a whole mechanism in for doing indexes
I got to check them out. I guess that's just the example but
a whole way in which you can put indexes in your models and stuff.
Yeah, MongoDB indexes, perfect.
So, pretty cool that it has that stuff built in.
Yeah, it looks like it's coming on strong, so maybe that's a good one.
Mongo engine is actually what I use over at Talk Python.
But I don't believe it's async.
I have suspicions it will never be async.
It's super, super involved, and it doesn't seem to be changing real quickly.
So I'm guessing that that's kind of where it is.
- Yeah, that is cool.
- I did, when I looked at this earlier,
one thing I wasn't psyched about,
I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on this, Michael.
The way that it does this is at runtime.
So, you know, you can run it at runtime,
and you can run it at runtime,
I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on this, Michael.
The way that it does this is at runtime, right?
So the way you get your SQLAlchemy model,
you say, "Now I'm going to create a Pydantic user from my user
by passing it to a function that does probably magic meta programming."
And boom, out comes this type, Pydantic user.
Right? And that's cool.
But one thing I don't like about that style
is the editors can't be very smart about helping you, right?
Like, it doesn't know what the heck.
Pydantic user can do or can be or, you know, auto complete and all that sort of stuff.
So I feel like a lot of these sort of runtime converter things.
I don't know, they let the good editors like PyCharm and VS Code down.
What do you think?
Yeah, I mean, is there a way to look at what it'll convert that down to?
It'd be great if you could get it to like spit out.
Yeah, actually, you run this one time and then you're good.
I just want a way to go from 20 SQLAlchemy models
to 20 hydraulic models.
And then I'm gonna save that code and go with it
or something like that would be cool.
But--
- So it must be cached sort of at some point.
So like--
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, that's interesting.
- Yeah, I do think it's really powerful though,
but it's just like, yeah, it's a little tricky
to get help with what you're supposed to do, right?
- 'Cause otherwise you have two different like model concepts
like you have your model, like your database model,
which is SQLAlchemy.
then you have like sort of your model,
which is more of like a schema,
but PyDantec calls the models.
And so like in my, you know, FastAPI code,
I call them schemas.
And so I have like a schemas.py file,
and then I have a models.py file,
which is the flask, you know,
or sorry, I keep saying flask, but the--
- I know, I do.
It's so hard 'cause they're the same size word
and they play a very similar way.
(laughing)
- Are they sponsoring this?
But yeah, I have two, like, yeah,
Just having them combined together would make sense.
But yeah, I get what you're saying about,
you don't know exactly what that is until--
- Yeah, if I go to one of those and say dot,
it's like, it gives me nothing.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Cool, cool.
Yeah, so Joe out there in the live stream says,
would you recommend,
what would you recommend as a DB driver
instead of a Psycho PG2 for Postgres and FastAPI?
You got a recommendation?
- Well, if you're using synchronous,
you wanna go with Psycho PG2, obviously,
but if you're using the async, then it's gonna be Async PG.
- Yeah, so there's a separate async one.
Very cool.
All right, let's talk about,
did I just bag on code generators?
Let's talk about code generators.
(both laughing)
Okay, 'cause they are valuable.
One of the things that's super cool,
like here I have a, here's a little site I built
for a course, weather.talkpython.fm
that lets you go and enter a city,
and it'll tell you literally the real weather right now.
Like for now in Portland, it's broken clouds
within like a few moments, right?
That's cool.
And one of the things that's really nice though
with all these things is you can go to slash docs
and you get this cool documentation thing.
And that's just where like your Pydantic model kicks in
for the JSON schema response
and all those cool things, right?
So that's just FastAPI, that's amazing.
But the next thing is the FastAPI code generator, right?
- So this takes an open API file,
and then it'll scaffold out your FastAPI app based on that.
And so does that do all like the bi-dynamic models
and whatnot?
- I'm not sure if it does.
- Or is it just do the endpoints?
- It seems like it, it says the response model is pet.
I think so.
- From dot models import pets, yeah.
- Yeah, so you pointed at that documentation,
that slash docs that I was just talking about,
and you say, here's some API specification.
I want a FastAPI server implementation of that, boom.
And you get it, right?
- So you can sort of do like the document driven development.
So then if you want to change your API,
you change the open API doc.
- Exactly, yeah.
You can see right here,
it is actually generating the Pydantic models
and even the errors that it throws and so on.
This is super cool.
It even has support for say optional strings
and default values versus non-optional strings.
I like it.
- That's cool.
- I'm not sure I would use it
'cause I don't find myself in a situation
where I have that a lot,
but if you wanted to do it,
it seems like it would be really cool to have.
All right, related to that is the other side of the story.
I want to talk to an existing FastAPI.
Probably this would work for any open API thing,
I would guess, but it's called, it says it's for FastAPI.
So, Jay, am I an IDE-friendly API client
from an open API spec?
This looks cool. Let's see some examples down here. It both supports async and synchronous
clients. And I'm guessing it's using the similar example model because we have a pet here as
well. So it generates the model, the Pydantic model that you're going to exchange with the
server and all sorts of stuff. This is cool.
So what does this generate exactly? It's during a client library to interact with the API?
- Yeah, like, so instead of using requests to call the API
and just putting bare dictionaries,
it will actually generate the Pythonic models
and it'll give you the API endpoints as functions
instead of just request this URL.
- Nice.
Does that give you like Sphinx documentation
and all that too?
- I have no idea.
- That would be cool.
- Yeah, it's super cool though.
It shows you how to basically take all that stuff
and generate those.
And it does say that it generates IDE-friendly ones.
So it must export those and not do it at runtime,
which those pet, you can see out right here,
like from client.models import pet.
So it generates the Python files
and then you consume them instead of at runtime
so that you get like auto-complete
and type check-in and all that.
- That's cool.
- Yeah.
Teddy out here on the live stream says,
"What use case would you use FastAPI
versus say Django REST framework?
- It's kind of hard to compare the two.
I mean, if you're already using Django,
then yeah, obviously go Django REST framework.
But yeah, in terms of, you know,
Django plus Django REST framework versus FastAPI,
you know, as always, it depends.
You know, it just depends on what you're doing.
It depends on the size of the API.
It depends on if you need authentication.
It depends, you know, if you want like, you know,
the CRUD admin, you know, type stuff.
It depends on what tools you're gonna be using
to consume the API.
If you want something that's tried and true
and battle tested,
I would go with Django and Django REST framework.
If you want to play around with the new hotness
and take advantage of,
you sink and await and all the cool stuff that's coming out,
then maybe check out FastAPI.
- Yeah, I would certainly say,
if you already have Django and you're already using it
and just wanna plug into the same app and just keep rolling,
probably just Django rest framework, right?
Unless you really wanna commit to having multiple apps
that you run separately and, I don't know,
put behind Nginx through URL routing or something like that.
Also, how much of the FastAPI features
are you gonna use, right?
If you don't care about async and await,
and you don't care about the typing very much,
and you don't care about the documentation,
like, well, then it kinda comes down.
But if like all of those things are super important to you,
maybe breaking that out matters, I don't know.
That's kinda my thought as well.
- Yeah.
- Is there anything that stands out as better?
- No, I mean, it works well with Vue, React, Angular.
- Vue.js is, 'cause it's Vue.js.
(laughing)
Cool, all right, another one here
that I wanna talk about that's super neat
is FastAPI Profiler.
This looks really cool.
So it's middleware.
I mean, it's a middleware,
but it's a middleware that's built on top of Vue.js.
So it's middleware.
I mean, you're the Django expert,
certainly for the two of us here.
Tell me how it works.
I know in Pyramid,
there's a debug toolbar you can turn on.
And then one of the parts of that is show me the profile.
Like when I request this page, where was my time spent?
Show me my SQLAlchemy queries actually interlaced in there
and so on, which is super cool.
Django has something like that, right?
- Yeah, Django has Django debug toolbar.
as you had said, and it does, basically that works with your service-side templating
to figure out with that specific template or with that specific route,
how many different queries did it take to load this view.
Right, if you've got the n+1 problem because you pass this thing and then you're all over
touching the lazy loaded properties over and over and over, something like that.
It's not going to detect n+1 issues for you, but you should be able to see them.
- Why do I have a hundred queries on this page instead of two?
That's jump out at you, right?
- Yeah.
- So this is, I'm guessing like that.
- Yeah, I wonder where the output prints out at
because with FastAPI,
I usually don't have the server-side templating with it.
So it's just like, just print out to the terminal or.
- Yeah, it's worth pointing out that FastAPI
does support Jinja.
- Yeah.
- But you gotta do a little extra work to make it do it.
So it says this is really like a leveraging PI instrument
from Joe Rick.
And if you scroll down over on their repo, on his repo,
there's a bunch of cool output.
I think it might even open up, I don't know.
I'm not sure exactly where it goes.
It might, I think it saves it to like a profile file.
So you get this like cool little view
of like the profile output here.
Even there's like a terminal version, which is, I don't know
and like a rich colored terminal version,
but there's a bunch of cool graphs and stuff.
you can get, there's, I think I saw in here somewhere,
you can open up a, yeah, you can open up
some kind of like flame graph as well.
- Oh, that's cool, yeah.
- You can dig into it.
So basically anything you can do with Pi Instrument,
I think this is just a middleware wrapper
that generates Pi Instrument stuff for you,
which is, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, a lot of stuff is super powerful.
Like you could probably take some of that stuff
and tie it into your like integration type tests
to ensure that, hey, I built this route, this view,
it takes X amount of time.
And now I wanna throw junior developer on my code,
I wanna make sure, hey, there's not any performance loss.
Then you can use some stuff like that
to make sure that the number of queries
don't all of a sudden triple,
like the load time doesn't all of a sudden
triple stuff like that.
So tying that stuff into your test suite
is super powerful.
I do that with, there's a library called n+1
that does that very same thing.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Nice.
I've heard of it, but I haven't used it.
Another one I think that stands out is pretty interesting
is FastAPI Mail.
I mean, boring, but sending mail is one of those things
that can take forever.
Like I had one of these admin parts of my site.
I had a way to like send an email
to all the people in this class.
Go.
What, 20 seconds, 30 seconds, timed out.
And it was going to like thousands of people.
And the problem was it had sent hundreds of emails
and then it timed out.
So how do I resend that without sending a duplicate
to the first half?
- Maintain state there.
- Yeah, and like, I don't really,
like it's really hard to go back to figure out everyone
who got it, but not, anyway, it was a huge pain.
And I'm like, okay, sending a lot of emails kind of sucks.
And so this one FastAPI mail is cool
because email is one of those things
that's like dreadfully slow.
And this allows you to asynchronously send email messages
in a super simple way.
- So you're not using like SendGrid or SES or anything?
- I was using SES at the time.
But I was doing it, instead of like doing a bulk send,
I said this customized email to that person,
this customized email to that person.
And like, I mean, it's fine
if I even just set the timeout limit longer or whatever,
it would have been fine.
What I ended up doing is just putting that in the background queue
and just let it go.
That's how it should have been.
It shouldn't have been as part of the request,
but I learned the hard way the first time around.
- How do you celery for that same exact thing?
I mean, that just goes right to queue, yeah.
- Perfect, yeah.
So this one has an async.
This makes, I mean, like you said,
doing bulk sending on some kind of background thing
is exactly what you should do.
But if you're trying to not block your processing
and you want to send an email, just one,
like, "Hey, reset my password," right?
that could be a thing you could just do right away.
And so here's a way to await sending emails,
which is kind of cool.
- Yeah, if you don't really care too much
about what happens to the email,
like if you're not too concerned about,
hey, if this doesn't get delivered, it's not a huge deal.
I'd say like something like this is fine.
If it's more like, you know,
there's like any sort of like workflow based on,
you know, what could happen there,
like success, failure, you know, that sort of thing.
Like if then this, that type stuff,
You want to probably look more like towards salary,
I would say, but I still think like,
if you want to send like just a simple one-off email,
maybe it's even to yourself or something like that.
I do this like with FastAPI mails.
I send myself notifications based on events
and like, I don't necessarily need them.
Like, you know, I'm not curing cancer here.
So if I don't get it, I don't care.
- Yeah, I have the same thing.
I'll just shoot myself messages like,
oh, here's the thing you should probably know
about that happened.
Very cool.
Yeah, I have moved to SendGrid last month or two
and really like it.
- Yeah. - It's so big.
Come back to normal size.
So let's see, what else have we got here that's interesting?
Then we got the obligatory utils, the catch all right.
- Everything, yeah.
Well-named, helpers.py.
- Exactly.
So we got Socket.io stuff, plugins, pagination.
One I do, two that I'll call quick attention to
that I think are neat in here.
This is not an endorsement or saying I would use it,
but I think I can see a real interesting use case.
First, the cache one.
Yeah, maybe tell us about this cache one here.
- Yeah, so I haven't used this one exactly,
but it looks like, yeah, it just is probably going to,
probably cache at the route handler level.
And it looks like it's caching the response
based on the request parameters inside of Redis.
One thing that's interesting here that it actually does,
that I haven't seen in any of these examples yet,
but it's certainly a FastAPI thing,
is it uses dependency injection for the cache.
So they've got a view method here,
or API endpoint, I guess, called hello.
And the params cache of type Redis cache backend
equals the values depends on Redis cache.
So it goes and finds the one instance of that
and hands it off and it's like standard Redis key value type thing.
Like, "Await, get the thing.
The thing's not there, await, set the thing."
You know, pretty standard.
It's pretty cool, just the simple integration.
Yeah, like dependency injection, I think,
it's a pretty difficult concept if you look at it from a theoretical standpoint.
But, you know, it's just like this object here
is just taking this other object at runtime, you know, essentially.
So it's just a way to like sort of split apart
sort of your dependencies.
And it makes testing a whole lot easier
so you don't have to have like mocks all over the place.
So you just switch out like the Redis cache
for like in-memory cache or something like that.
But I think--
- You could pass anything that has a get and a set,
you're good, right?
- Yeah. (laughs)
I think because of dependency injection,
FastAPI, like you don't necessarily have to leverage it,
but I think that if you are, it does take a little,
Like you have to be a little bit more of a seasoned developer, I'd say,
than someone that's just picking up Flask.
Yeah, I totally agree about that.
Dependency injection is one of those things like,
"Oh, this is really cool and it makes things simpler."
Why is it so complicated? What just happened?
Yeah.
You know, I don't know.
When you start looking at Flask global objects,
like, "Oh, that's complex."
I'm thinking more of like the static languages like Java or C#
where you've got an interface, one of these,
and then a bunch of those registered,
then like which one did it actually,
like what concrete type am I even working with?
Like, it can be a, I don't know,
people can over pattern it, I guess.
All right, speaking of not over patterning it,
let's check this out.
So I was talking at the Python,
at the San Francisco Python meetup last night,
and someone asked me,
"Hey, is there a way in FastAPI to just like,"
no, this was my office hours, same day though,
and also video meeting.
Anyway, somebody said, "Can I just take a database
and make it like an API.
Yes, this FastAPI dash CRUD router.
It sounds amazing, right?
So basically what you do is you tell it your models
and the schemas, and then it just creates
all these API endpoints to do restful things
to that table through the model.
So I have a get slash potato, potato was the model,
get slash potato, that'll list them all.
post a potato to slash potato will create one,
delete, potato will get rid of all of them,
delete potato slash ideal, delete that one and so on.
So it just turns this into basically
a series of FastAPI endpoints
that are all the restful behaviors against your schemas.
- You don't see it delete all very often.
- Nope, nope, little Bobby T.
- I wonder if this is how a Gino might be leveraging
- Yeah.
You know, to me, this feels overexposed,
but if it's like something simple,
something internal probably,
yeah, maybe it makes sense to just go like,
I just need to do that, but from JavaScript.
- Yeah.
- Can we just turn that on?
But like I said, I probably would not turn that on
'cause it scares me.
Let's see, rate limiting.
There's a couple of rate limiting things that are cool here.
slow API and then what was the other one?
FastAPI limiter.
Those are cool.
And that's pretty much it for the standard docs, right?
Or standard extensions.
And we've got the documentation.
We've got some external resources,
like some of the things that you have over at Test Driven.
The podcasts you talked to, you mentioned,
or somehow someone linked the Python bytes thing
I had with Sebastian, I believe.
- I'm starting to get to the point with this awesome list
where it's like, I'm gonna probably have to like,
curate the tutorials a little bit more
because there's so many like new tutorials.
Like when I started this,
there were like three or four tutorials.
And now there's like hundreds of them
just based on the popularity of the framework.
So getting a little bit smarter
with curating the tutorials,
like 'cause you don't need 15 different tutorials
like showing how to build a CRUD app,
that sort of thing.
I did find this FastAPI for Flask users, super, super helpful
because what it does, it says, you want to do this in Flask.
Here's the FastAPI version.
You want to do this in Flask.
And it just does like simple stuff.
Like I want to, let me see if I can find some examples.
I want to create a method that does post.
Here's what it looks like there.
Here's what it looks like in FastAPI and just side by side, sort
of a cookbook type of thing.
I like that a lot.
So yeah, that's a good one.
All right, we're just about out of time.
Got a few moments left.
I don't think we have time to go through all the tutorials
and honestly, I haven't researched enough to talk about it.
A couple of talks, which is cool.
A couple of videos, which is cool.
I'm sure there's probably some more out there
on the internet that could overwhelm your list
at this point.
Courses, you and I, we've got a lock on it.
- Yeah, I recognize a few of those names, right?
There's three courses and now let's talk about yours first.
- Yeah, so my course focuses on building just a RESTful API.
It also focuses on heavily,
obviously on test-driven development.
I also focus on code formatting type tools
like Black and Flake 8 and stuff like that.
And so I also go into CI/CD with GitHub Actions
and then everything is Dockerized
and then you also deploy it to Heroku.
Yeah, super cool. And I saw that both you and I are also sponsors of the FastAPI project and GitHub, which is pretty cool.
Yeah, you're gold. I'm silver. I assume, you know, I assume you donate a few more bucks a month then?
I guess so. I guess so.
Yeah, how does that work?
I don't call out to like say, oh, look how cool we are. I mean, I do see on the screen here, which sort of brought it to mind, but
There's so many companies out there who are building major parts of their businesses on top of FastAPI and other projects.
Like, GitHub has such a simple way to go press the sponsor button,
support those things and make sure they have a nice, vibrant ecosystem, people backing them.
You know, if we can do it, surely.
Yeah.
Bank of America, Chase, Microsoft, Google.
Get in there.
Anyway, that was more my pitch there.
Yeah, I think more companies need to sort of call that just the cost of doing business.
It's like we're resting on the shoulders of all these giants.
We have this other remote team over here that we know nothing about and yet we're leveraging
this team.
And not all projects are curated or maintained by Google and Facebook either.
And so, yeah, I think I'm not trying to push this in people's face like, "Hey, I'm better
than you."
"Hey, if I can do this, then yeah, I think a lot of companies should be thinking more and more about doing stuff like this."
I totally agree. I think they should definitely see, we critically depend upon these technologies.
Let's make sure that we do a little bit to support them.
Yeah.
Because a little bit for a lot of these companies would dramatically change it, right?
If Flask got $2 million a year, that would fundamentally change that organization.
And yet, given how many people use it,
it would be nothing to the companies.
And like, it wouldn't even show up almost, right?
So I know there's a lot of complexity
about how companies justify money
and where it goes on the balance sheet and all that,
but still, people encourage their companies
to do stuff like that.
All right, so this is a really cool course.
I love the Docker angle of it as well.
So nice, test-driven, how's that work?
What's the story with that part?
- Test-driven development?
- Or like... - How's that plug in with like FastAPI?
Like, are you doing like this dependency injection type stuff or like...
I show both like sort of ways how to do tests.
Like I show like how to mock everything.
So if you want to like speed like your tests up,
but I don't actually go into like all the dependency injection type stuff with the ORM.
It gets a little bit too complex, I would say, especially with how Tortoise is set up.
But yeah, I showed basically two different types of tests.
like you can test it sort of like integration style
where it's actually hitting the database
or like you're using monkey patch to sort of mock out
sort of the actual, the database layer.
- Yeah, that sounds super cool and useful.
All right.
- It's also like what different between our two courses
is like a like minor text-based and yours are.
- All video based, yeah.
- All video based, yes.
- Yeah, I mean, there's source code on GitHub that's text,
but that's not really text-based.
- So yours are both then?
- No, no, no, no, no, not really.
It's all video based.
So also, I mean, I didn't plan this ahead.
I looked at it like, wow, you have my two courses,
which is super cool.
So I have two courses on here,
modern APIs with FastAPI.
And the idea is just like,
let's build an API that uses Bidantic,
that uses async and await,
that has real live data, stuff like that.
It's sort of the fundamentals of the FastAPI world.
And then the other one is full web apps with FastAPI.
So if you had already a Flask app or something like that,
and you're like,
I'd like to add some additional features to it.
You could just plug in some API type thing to it,
some RESTful API extension, and it goes.
But if you're starting from scratch,
you might create an API with FastAPI.
Then you're like, well, I also wanted some HTML stuff.
Could I actually add like a server side HTML story
around this as well.
So it shows you how to like create users,
submit forms, validate data, use templates,
all that kind of stuff.
So kind of like,
need a little bit more on the server side,
a little more on the website, not just pure API,
then like that would tell you how to do that.
- So you're using server side templating for that?
- Yeah, either Jinja2 or Chameleon, take your pick.
- Okay.
- Yeah, basically we recreate pypi.org and fastAPI.
- So you're not doing a single page app
and with Vue and React and Docker as a whole,
then well, why not?
- I know, I know. - You're not doing it right.
- I'm totally doing it wrong though.
I definitely would not be cool in the JavaScript world.
And you know, it's not that I'm super against that,
but I think that there's still a lot of value
to having some of the stuff on server side.
And then, you know, I don't know.
I don't think everything has to be a spa, right?
Single page app. - Yeah.
Yeah, I was being sarcastic
because that's stuff we do. - I know you were.
I know you were. - Yeah, yeah.
(laughing)
So we were talking right before this,
we realized we have our three classes here,
our courses here,
that we wanted to do some kind of special for people
and a way to also to give back to FastAPI.
I'll tell people what we came up with.
Like this was not pre-planned until we were like,
oh wait, why don't we,
now we're looking at these three things here,
let's do something.
So we decided that we're going to sell these three classes
as a bundle, not one off,
but if you wanna take all three of these classes,
we'll give you 50% off the price and 50% of that,
50%, 50% of what you pay us,
we'll go to support FastAPI directly.
So we're gonna try to do a little fundraiser for FastAPI
and do a little awareness for our courses.
- Yeah, the courses kind of build into each other too.
Like your core, your modern API is a FastAPI,
I would recommend taking that first.
And then sort of my course takes that to the next level.
And then, you know, if you wanna learn how to like,
hey, I want one of my routes to have like
server-side templating so I can like serve up something
to interact with API,
then add the full web app course on top of that.
- Yeah, I think so.
So we don't have, because it's your course
and my course is different platforms, all that,
we don't have an official way to make this happen.
So they just send you an email and say,
hey, I'd like to do this bundle thing
and we'll just make it happen behind the scenes, right?
- Yeah, just shoot me a quick email,
michael@testroom.io and I'll do all the hard work
and link all that together and send and put the,
probably just use Stripe for that,
just send out a quick Stripe invoice
and then yeah, we'll make it work behind the scenes
and then get Sebastian, the FastAPI creator,
the other 50% of that, so help support FastAPI.
- Super cool, yeah, thanks for doing that together, Michael.
That'd be fun.
All right, now there's a couple of questions
in the live chat before we wrap this up.
I guess, let's go with this question from Joe real quick.
Says, "I'm really happy with Flask.
"Is there any reason for me to switch to FastAPI?"
I mean, we've covered some of the reasons.
I would point out before anyone out there listening
makes that decision, if Flask 2.0 is coming out in a week,
wait until that happens.
And then look at what the modern Flask looks like.
A lot of major stuff's coming,
like async and await support and so on.
- And yeah, I would say that's a hard no.
No need, don't switch right away.
Like spin up an app, like see if you like it,
see if you enjoy it before like, you know,
moving over, moving your application over to FastAPI.
- Yeah, and then Teddy has another interesting question.
Like, are we aware of any CMS-like projects
building on top of FastAPI,
similar to say Wagtail with Django?
I don't know of any.
- Yeah, I don't know any of it either.
- The closest that I would say is like that thing
I described with full web apps with FastAPI,
which you can get the code from to the open public
GitHub repo, you don't have to take the course
to check it out.
That does put like HTML views and stuff on top of it,
but you're still there.
It's more like what Flask does from scratch,
not what Wagtail does from like, here's your CMS.
So that's a very long ways from what you're asking,
but it's as close as I know of.
- Yeah, Wagtail is like in between WordPress
and sort of Django.
So it adds a lot on top of Django.
So yeah, if you're looking for that sort of functionality,
FastAPI is not gonna do that.
I wouldn't even look for an extension out there for that.
It's not the right tool.
- Yeah, probably not.
Dominus asks, what's the best platform to deploy FastAPI?
- Yeah, so you can deploy it really sort of anywhere.
It kind of gets into the hosting section there.
So if you want to scroll down there.
Yeah, yeah, we're like on the cusp of it, but we don't have time to go deep into it.
Yeah, so yeah, I mean, if you containerize it, you can obviously deploy it wherever I deploy like,
to Heroku. It's very simple to deploy containerized apps there.
EC2, DigitalOcean as an app platform, you know, it's a platform as a service, it's similar to Heroku
now. So yeah, I mean, really, wherever you like to do your deployments, you know, FastAPI,
with like totally fine.
There's even some serverless stuff that you point out in your list there right further down.
Certainly on the infrastructure to service,
Nginx, G-Unicorn,
particularly running u-vehicorn workers.
So you get the async support, which is like a special flag you can pass to G-Unicorn.
And then let's encrypt for SSL and you're golden.
Yeah, and I run an awesome flask
you know, repo as well.
And I literally copied and pasted this from Flask.
So it's like, I mean, all of this is just agnostic.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
And Joe actually gave a call out to that earlier saying,
"I just starred your live and realized
you're the same guy that does the awesome Flask thing."
- Yeah, there we go.
(laughing)
- Fantastic.
All right, well, I think we're quite out of time here,
Michael, but super fun, super fun stuff to talk about.
Really helpful.
I just love these awesome lists
because not only do you learn about all these cool things
like some of the plugins like FastAPI, SQLAlchemy
but then also things that those are using.
It's just such a cool exploration
of all these different libraries
and things that are out there, right?
Like Beanie, for example, I didn't know about Beanie
but now I discovered it
even though I wasn't looking for that in particular.
- Yeah, I don't know how many times I see on Reddit
like people asking, well, hey, what should I use for Auth?
what should I use for this?
And it's like, well, I mean, yeah, I mean, here's a list.
Here's a concise list of all the different things out there.
It might not cover everything
'cause there's obviously other things out there,
but it's definitely nice to come to something like this
versus searching PyPI with FastAPI- basically.
- Exactly, exactly.
One of the big challenges we have in the Python space,
which is kind of the opposite of some places,
like say the Microsoft world,
where they're like, here's your ORM,
here's your web framework.
You go build with that, have a good time.
We have the exact opposite of,
there's a thousand flowers blooming
in each level of the stack.
- Yeah.
- It's a paradox of choice.
Did you notice, as a newcomer,
I don't think it feels like amazing.
Look at all these choices.
It feels like overwhelming.
What do I do?
- Yeah.
- Right.
I think awesome lists like the one you created
are helpful to really narrow it down to a couple.
Go make a pick and just run with it.
- A lot of the Ruby and Rails folks,
when they come over to the Python space,
they're like, well, there's more than one,
there's more than one ORM.
- Yeah.
- Well, which one do I use?
Well, I don't know, ask DHH, I guess.
- Yeah, exactly, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
Yeah, very cool.
All right, well, I guess we're down to
the final two questions before I let you out of here.
I'll see if this has changed since last time.
So if you're gonna write some code,
what editor do you use?
- So I approached this question a little different
'cause you asked me favorite editor and I said, idle
because I don't use idle, obviously,
but it has a special place in my heart
'cause that's where I learned Python was idle.
And thought is like sort of like in between
like a VS Code or a PyCharm and idle,
sort of like if you're gonna learn like on idle,
like today, check out Thonny.
It like adds like some debugging like type tools
and it's like a lot prettier to look at.
- Yeah, super interesting.
It's like sort of like a notebook,
sort of like a proper like auto-complete editor.
And it looks a little bit like IDLE.
Yeah. How interesting.
- Yeah. Yeah.
- Yeah. Cool.
Okay. Yeah.
I haven't thought about that one for a while.
That's cool.
- Don't use this on a daily basis though.
So I definitely use VS Code on a daily basis.
So I'm not coding in the IDLE.
Like what does IDLE stand for?
Integrated Development and Learning Environment.
Yeah, don't use that on a daily basis.
- Exactly.
I use Scratch for my architecture design diagrams.
- Yeah, there you go.
- Yeah, and then notable PyPI package.
- So I've been using for docstrings,
I've been using Flake 8 docstrings to lint my docstrings
and that has helped me.
You know, I use like the sort of the Google,
you know, flavor of docstrings
and that has helped me adhere to that a little bit better.
Also, I wanna give a shout out to Hotwire Django.
So Hotwire comes from sort of the Rails sort of world,
but this is like essentially HTML served over WebSockets.
So instead of like doing all this stuff with Vue or React,
what you do is you serve up basically templates
and the templates are pre-rendered.
Yeah, hey.com, that's where Hotwire comes from.
but instead of serving up your JSON
and having two forms of state,
one on the client, one on the server,
you just like, you simplify it all.
I mean, it does add complexity with WebSockets
and you have to deal with that,
but yeah, I like sort of that paradigm
and it feels like a little bit more like 2005-ish
than 2020-ish, but yeah, I mean,
it's definitely been working for the Rails folks
and Basecamp.
- Yeah, yeah.
That place is interesting, all the frameworks that they kick out.
Yeah.
Cool.
All right.
So if you want to be like, "Hey," in DHH, you can go do that.
That's really cool.
I've heard good things about it.
Awesome.
Well, Michael, it's been really fun to talk about your awesome list.
And I think all the stuff we touched on is going to be super helpful.
Final call to action.
If you want to get started with FastAPI and pick some libraries, what do they do?
You know, obviously, yeah, I would definitely say
start with the FastAPI documentation.
It is great out of all of like the documentation out there
in terms of Flask and Django and whatnot.
That one is by far the best.
Definitely start off there.
After you just a basic app,
check out the awesome like FastAPI list
to see how to extend it.
And then, you know, if you're looking to like learn more
in the testing and, you know, Docker type realm,
you know, check out my course and, you know,
check out Michael's courses as well.
- Yeah, and you can do that bundle thing.
I'll include the email so they can send it over
and help them out.
- Yeah, sounds good.
- Cool.
- Yeah, awesome.
So thank you so much for being here.
Really appreciate it.
And it's been super fun to talk FastAPI
and all this stuff around it.
It's really growing, isn't it?
- Yeah, yeah, it's exciting.
It's exciting to see just how much it's grown
just in like, you know, just past like six months.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Yeah. - All right, see you later.
- Cool, well, cheers.
Thanks for having me, appreciate it.
- Yep, cheers.
Thanks everyone now to the live stream.
I see a bunch of thank you in the remarks there
and the comments, so yeah, cheers.
[BLANK_AUDIO]